Adding Basic Auth Document (#7792)
open-metadata/OpenMetadata: openmetadata-docs/content/deployment/security/basicAuthentication/index.md

---

> title: Username/Login Authentication

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Basic Authentication
```

> slug: /deployment/security/basicAuthentication

Reviewer: ```suggestion
slug: /deployment/security/basic-auth
```

---
title: Username/Login Authentication
slug: /deployment/security/basicAuthentication
---

# UserName/Password Login

> By Default the OpenMetadata comes with Username/Password Login Mechanism.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Out of the box, OpenMetadata comes with a Username & Password Login Mechanism.
```

> Default Username and Password for Login are:-

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default Username and Password for Login are:
```

```commandline

> UserName - admin

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Username - admin
```

Password - admin
```

# Setting up Basic Auth Manually

> Following are the steps needed to be performed to set up Username/Password Login:-

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below are the required steps to set up the Basic Login:
```

## Set up Configurations in `openmetadata.yaml` or with corresponding Environment Variables

### Authentication Configuration

> - Following configuration controls the auth mechanism for OpenMetadata update the mentioned fields as per requirement.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The following configuration controls the auth mechanism for OpenMetadata. Update the mentioned fields as required.
```

```yaml
authenticationConfiguration:
  provider: ${AUTHENTICATION_PROVIDER:-basic}
  publicKeyUrls: ${AUTHENTICATION_PUBLIC_KEYS:-[http://localhost:8585/api/v1/config/jwks]}
  authority: ${AUTHENTICATION_AUTHORITY:-https://accounts.google.com}
  enableSelfSignup : ${AUTHENTICATION_ENABLE_SELF_SIGNUP:-true}
```

> For Basic auth we need to set :-

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the Basic auth we need to set:
```

 
-  `provider` -> `basic`

-  `publicKeyUrls` -> `{http|https}://{ your domain}:{port}}/api/v1/config/jwks`

-  `authority` -> `{your domain}`

-  `enableSelfSignup` -> `This flag indicates if users can come and signup by themselves on the OM`

### Authorizer Configuration

> - Following configuration controls the authorizer for OpenMetadata update the mentioned fields as per requirement.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- This configuration controls the authorizer for OpenMetadata:
```

```yaml
authorizerConfiguration:
  adminPrincipals: ${AUTHORIZER_ADMIN_PRINCIPALS:-[admin]}
  allowedEmailRegistrationDomains: ${AUTHORIZER_ALLOWED_REGISTRATION_DOMAIN:-["all"]}
  principalDomain: ${AUTHORIZER_PRINCIPAL_DOMAIN:-"openmetadata.org"}
```

> For Basic auth we need to set :-

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the Basic auth we need to set:
```

> - `adminPrincipals` -> `admin usernames to bootstrap the server with , mentioned as comma-seprated`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `adminPrincipals` -> `admin usernames to bootstrap the server with comma-separated values`
```

- `allowedEmailRegistrationDomains` -> `This controls what all domain are allowed for email registration can be your {princialDomain} as well, for example gmail.com, outlook.comm etc.`

- `principalDomain` -> `This controls what all domain are allowed for email registration, for example gmail.com, outlook.comm etc.`

<Note>

> Please note following are the formats to bootstrap admins on server startup :-

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please note the following are the formats to bootstrap admins on server startup:
```

`[admin1,admin2,admin3]` 

> - This works for SMTP enabled servers, Login Password for these are generated randomly and sent to the mail {adminName}@{principalDomain}, if SMTP is not enabled for OM , please use below method to create admin users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- This works for SMTP-enabled servers, Login Password for these are generated randomly and sent to the mail {adminName}@{principalDomain}. If SMTP is not enabled for OM, please use the below method to create admin users.
```

`[admin1:password1,admin2:password2,admin3:[password3]]` 

- This allows to bootstrap the server with given password, later on can be changed by specific users by visiting profile page.

</Note>

### Jwt Configuration

> - Please note Jwt Configuration is mandatory to work with UserName/Password Login.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Please note that the JWT Configuration is mandatory to work with UserName/Password Login.
```

```yaml
jwtTokenConfiguration:
rsapublicKeyFilePath: ${RSA_PUBLIC_KEY_FILE_PATH:-"./conf/public_key.der"}
rsaprivateKeyFilePath: ${RSA_PRIVATE_KEY_FILE_PATH:-"./conf/private_key.der"}
jwtissuer: ${JWT_ISSUER:-"open-metadata.org"}
keyId: ${JWT_KEY_ID:-"Gb389a-9f76-gdjs-a92j-0242bk94356"}
```

<Note>

By Default the jwtTokenConfiguration is shipped with OM. 

### For Local/Testing Deployment

- You can work with existing configuration as well or if you want you can generate your own private/public key.

### For Production Deployment

> - It is a MUST! to update the JWT configuration. Following steps can be used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- It is a MUST! to update the JWT configuration. The following steps can be used.
```

- Generating Private/Public Keys

```commandline
openssl genrsa -out private_key.pem 2048   
openssl pkcs8 -topk8 -inform PEM -outform DER -in private_key.pem -out private_key.der -nocrypt
openssl rsa -in private_key.pem -pubout -outform DER -out public_key.der 
```

Update below with path of above generated private_key.der and public_key.der.

```yaml
rsapublicKeyFilePath: ${RSA_PUBLIC_KEY_FILE_PATH:-"./conf/public_key.der"}
rsaprivateKeyFilePath: ${RSA_PRIVATE_KEY_FILE_PATH:-"./conf/private_key.der"}
```

Jwt Issuer can be your {principalDomain}

```yaml
jwtissuer: ${JWT_ISSUER:-"open-metadata.org"}
```

KeyID is random generated UUID string, use any UUID generator to get a new KeyID.

```yaml
keyId: ${JWT_KEY_ID:-"Gb389a-9f76-gdjs-a92j-0242bk94356"}
```

</Note>

### Setting up SMTP Server

> - Basic Authentication is successfully set. For better login experience we can also set up the SMTP server to allow the users for 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Basic Authentication is successfully set. For a better login experience, we can also set up the SMTP server to allow the users to
```
